In this demo,
I'll show you how to install Helm
and to install a Helm chart.
For this example, I'll use Redis.
In my Kubernetes course,
I have a folder helm
and in helm, I have a README.
First, we need to install helm,
so I'll just do a wget to install Helm.
And to extract it,
and this will extract the helm executable
and I can just move the helm executable
to usr/local/bin/helm
and then I'll be able to execute helm.
So I'll do helm -h, I will get the help.
Let's have a look again at README.
Next up is to initialize helm.
And to initialize helm,
we need to first create these RBAC roles.
We need a ServiceAccount.
We're gonna call it tiller
and this tiller we're going to give admin privileges.
You can give tiller less privileges
but depending on what namespace you're going to deploy,
but for our use case, we will just allow tiller
to deploy everywhere on our cluster
so we can give it the admin role.
I'll do kubectl create helm-rbac.
This will end the ServiceAccount
and the cluster role binding
and then I can do helm init --service-account tiller
and this will install helm on the cluster.
Tiller has been installed into our Kubernetes cluster.
Let's have a look where it is deployed or installed.
Kubectl get pods namespace kube-system.
We have one new pod in kube-system, tiller-deploy,
so now tiller has been deployed.
Now let's search for redis,
helm search redis.
So there is a repository available
that already has lots of charts.
So here, if you look for redis,
we find sensu and redis
but this is the chart that we need.
We can deploy helm using helm install stable/redis.
And then it will deploy a redis for us.
And it gives it a release name,
a random name.
In this case, funny-snail.
You can also choose your own name
if you add an argument like --name myredis
will deploy a second redis with myredis, for example.
You can deploy multiple redises
just by giving them another name.
So here, I just deployed a second one,
using the name myredis in default namespace.
Let's have a look at what happened here.
So now I have two redises deployed.
They both have a PersistentVolume,
which will be created a Service,
there's a Deployment.
It has a Pod related to this deployment
and it has a Secret.
Let's read the notes.
Redis can be accessed on port 6373
on the following DNS name,
which is the name of my service,
so it's using the service discovery built in in Kubernetes.
Myredis-redis.default cluster.
To get a password, we can use
kubectl get secret --namespace default myredis-redis.
And the jsonpath
data.redis-password will just give us the password.
We need to base64 --decode that
because password is in base64.
And then we can connect to our redis.
So let's first get our password.
Let's just have a look what's in this secret.
It's not showing,
so we need this -o jsonpath.
Or you can do -o yaml
and then you will actually get everything.
Let's do yaml and then we see everything.
So here we see data, there's the redis-password
and this is Base64 encoded.
So if you do echo this string, base64 --decode,
so now I just did manually what this command would do.
So now this is our password.
And we can connect using kubectl run.
We can run a client.
We remove the client afterwards.
We need a tty, like a terminal.
The environment is REDIS-PASSWORD.
I'll just copy, paste it now.
We use an image, a redis image
that contains a client.
And then we can use --bash to give us a terminal.
Now we have a terminal.
If I now do echo REDIS_PASSWORD,
it will give us a password we can us
to connect to redis,
so now we are connected to redis.
Let's try something out.
SET key value.
SET mykey myvalue.
We inputted some data
and if you now do GET mykey,
we'll get myvalue, so this is all working.
If you would stop this pod,
then our data is preserved
because this chart spun up some storage for us.
We have a PersistentVolume claim.
Two volume claims actually,
one of the first redis, one of the second redis.
So they are bound to my pods.
So again I have a look at my pods.
I have two pods 'cause I have two deployments
that both spun up a pod.
One or myredis
and one for the funny-snail-redis.
I also have services.
I have the funny-snail-service
and the myredis service
and that makes sure that we can then use this host name here
within our cluster.
So this is an easy way to quickly get something installed.
How do we delete something?
Helm delete myredis, for example.
And helm delete funny-snail.
And now they will be deleted.
No pods left.
No volume claims left anymore
and the volumes will be deleted as well.
If a new release comes out,
we can use helm upgrade.
We can use helm upgrade
and use an example to upgrade redis.
So helm upgrade.
We can pass values if you would have a yaml file
with custom settings
and we can upgrade redis.
This is the release name
and then this is the chart name.
So what can we find?
We can find lots of things here.
We have, for example, mysql,
we have mysql, mariadb, percona.
We have a postgres as well.
We have things like spinnaker,
which I covered in my advanced course.
Same with prometheus
So there's lots of charts available.
There's also a chart for an ingress controller.
There's the nginx-ingress that you can use.
So rather than using my ingress controller,
you can use this ingress controller as a chart as well,
which might be easier to then upgrade it.
Helm is pretty new still
but it's definitely the way to package
and deploy your applications on your Kubernetes cluster
and it will only gain in importance in the future.
So that's it for this lecture.
This was a short introduction to Helm.